Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.
The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.
The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.
One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.
Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body
Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.
When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.
A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.
Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.
Milk can give some cats diarrhea.
Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.
Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.
A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.
It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.
In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).
A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.
On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.
The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.
A group of cats is called a “clowder.”
In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.
70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.
Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.
A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.
A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).
Cats have 3 eyelids.
Cats have 3 eyelids.
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.
Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""
Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.
The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.
A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.
A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. 
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.
Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.
A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!
In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.
Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.
Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).
The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.
Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.
In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.
The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.
Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.
The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).
The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.
Female felines are \superfecund
Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.
A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.
Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.
Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.
The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.
It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.
A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.
A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!
A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.
All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.
In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.
Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.
A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.
Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.
Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.
Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.
A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.
Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.
The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.
The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.
Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.
The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.
In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.
Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.
Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.
Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.
The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.
Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles
Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).
A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. 
Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.
Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.
A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).
Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.
The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!
In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.
Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.
Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).
Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.
When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.
A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.
A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.
Cats dislike citrus scent.
