The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.
Cats have supersonic hearing
When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as 'hers' with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head, it is a sign of acceptance and affection.
Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.
If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.
There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.
Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.
A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.
Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.
Cats dislike citrus scent.
Не удалось получить факт.
The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.
A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.
Не удалось получить факт.
A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.
Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.
If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.
The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.
Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
Не удалось получить факт.
According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.
Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.
It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.
It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.
Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles
Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.
A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.
The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.
In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.
The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.
The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).
Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.
A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.
Не удалось получить факт.
The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.
During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.
The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.
